SURMA: Let's say you're
building your node app,
and once you're done, you want
to publish it to the world.
You log into your server,
you build the app,
and it doesn't work.
Small differences in
runtime environments
can be extremely
frustrating when
trying to get your app running.
Docker is one way to keep
your runtime environment
identical for development,
testing, and production.
Here, I have an extremely
important and complex node app
using Express.
To put everything in
a Docker container,
we need to create a new
file called Docker file
and write a couple of lines.
We are using the
official node base
image, set our working directory
where our app's code will live,
copy all source files off our
app into the container image,
and run NPM to install
the dependencies.
Now, we declare our port
and define the command
that starts our app.
We can now build our image
using Docker build and give it
a label.
Afterwards, we can use the image
to start a new container using
Docker run.
Don't forget to bind
the port to your host.
Now, we can access the app
just like we did before when
the container is running.
To get the app running
on your server,
you can either rebuild the
image there, publish your image
to the Docker registry,
or save the image
from your local machine to
a file using Docker save,
and publish it to your server.
And there you have it.
Our app is now running
just like it was before.
But this time, we can be sure
that the runtime environment
will always be exactly the same
every single time, no matter
what machine it is on.
Thanks for watching.
See you next time.
If you're wondering
why I'm suddenly small
and only partly
covering the screen,
that is because I need to make
room for the big Chrome logo
that you can click to subscribe.
And also, we need more space
for our latest live stream
over there.